# Dia-BEAT-es
#Abstract

The basic idea of this whole project is to create a better diabetes website for remedial measures against diabetes. The website has a variety of different features which most other websites don't provide or have an elaborate monetization system for. The objective was to provide a diet plan according to their BMI levels and their sugar levels, give appropriate sources that can help to buy different products that are a basic necessity in the case of diabetes, and specific user goal-oriented weight loss calorie counter. The website also has a very informational base for how to cope with diabetes and specific do's and don’ts for patients. It provides a variety of exercises for coping with diabetes along with the necessary treatment/medication required. The project also serves to account for risk factors and signs/symptoms of diabetes which help in the immediate action course a patient should take. There are different health tools included such as the BMI calculator and the calorie counter added for keeping a track of all the necessary signs one must look out for.

#Problem Statement

Though we all know that India is the world's diabetic capital, we've created an informative and interactive website that will help you keep track of your sugar levels, provide diet plans and recipes, recommend some yoga exercises, and suggest appropriate measures for managing your diabetes lifestyle. To reduce the burden of diabetes and improve the quality of life for all people who have, or are at risk for, diabetes. To raise awareness about diabetes by providing essential information such as diet plans and improving quality of life by suggesting exercises and yoga, prevention of complications, and type 2 diabetes. To reduce expenditures for medical care by maintaining and living a healthy lifestyle.

#System Design

 First, the user needs to sign up on the website by entering personal information, then the user can log in and will get access to the website which is shown in figure 6. The user will be redirected to the home page of the website which contains information about diabetes. Users can navigate through the website through the navigation bar and explore different pages on the website. The Diabetes drop-down list contains four categories namely Types of Diabetes (information about the two types of diabetes), Risk factors, Signs/Symptoms, Treatment, and medication-related diabetes. The Diabetes and You section contain links to web pages regarding type 1[1] and type 2 diabetes[2]. Healthy Living contains information about diet and nutrition recommended for diabetes, also a webpage regarding necessary physical activities. The BMI calculator is a dynamic calculator that suggests to the user a diet plan based on their BMI index. BMI index is calculated by taking the input value height and weight from the user.
 
 Calorie Counter analyzes the user's goal, activity level, weight, age, gender-based on these parameters it gives a maximum daily calorie count. Every webpage on the website contains a navigation bar for easy navigation and a footer section containing hyperlinks to several important webpages on the website as well as a 'DONATE' button which would redirect them to a list of charities alongside it contains social-media handle links.
 
